THE LEGEND OF THE SACRED AMULET
The  Gaspards,  a peaceful race of people,  lived  for  centuries
under the wise rule of an old family endowed with magic powers  :
the Cariken.
This family possessed a secular symbol of power,  forged way back
in ancient times by the Gods of Enlightenment. Its power was such
that  peace and prosperity reigned for many  centuries.  However,
the Cariken's vigilance gradually slackened and because of  this,
the use of the magical amulet sunk into decline.
And thus Maldur, a wicked druid, succeeded in conquering Gaspary,
aided by horrific monsters he had created. His warriors massacred
the  Cariken mercilessly and no one managed to escape or use  the
amulet.  It  therefore  fell into  Maldur's  hands,  who  rapidly
realised what hidden powers it contained. Nevertheless legend had
it  that if a single member of the Cariken survived the  massacre
and  got  hold  of the amulet,  he could then  rid  the  land  of
terrible Maldur.
In  order  to  avoid all this,  the druid tried  to  destroy  the
amulet. He therefore concentrated all his magical powers, causing
an  enormous  explosion,   and  under  the  pressure  the  amulet
shattered  into  23  pieces spread  across  the  country.  Maldur
survived  the  explosion  because  of  his  supernatural  powers.
nevertheless,  he was seriously injured, and sent his monsters to
recover  the  fragments,  before they fell  into  someone  else's
hands.

What  Maldur  didn't know was that there was indeed  a  survivor,
none other than the son of the last ruling king.  When he was two
years  old,  he had been rescued by Thorax,  one of his  father's
faithful servants,  and raised far away from Maldur's  spies.  On
his deathbed,  his father made a last wish :  when Ulopa  reached
the  age  of sixteen,  he should be told about the  mission  that
would subsequently become his unique duty...
On Ulopa's birthday,  Thorax told him the story of his  ancestors
and  explained  to  him how his true father  died.  In  order  to
vanquish  the king's assassins and put an end to the rule of  the
masters of darkness,  there was only one solution  :  Ulopa,  the
last  of the Cariken,  must set off to find the 23 pieces of  the
amulet, in order to get rid of the druid Maldur for good.
Thorax  could  only  tell him one magic trick of  the  Cariken  :
magical  control  of energy bubbles.  Only the consumption  of  a
potion can maintain this magical power.
Thus  Thorax gave some of the potion to Ulopa to provide for  his
long  dangerous journey that would lead him to Maldur's  kingdom.
The  creatures  that existed when Ulopa's father  was  alive  had
meanwhile   been   almost  completely  supplanted   by   Maldur's
terrifying monsters.

OBJECT OF THE GAME
The player must defeat Maldur,  the evil druid.  Along the  route
leading  to  Maldur's temple,  he has to find  fragments  of  the
magical  amulet on each level.  The levels are separated  into  a
lower  and higher world.  The player can move form one  world  to
another.  A  level  is  completed once the  player  has  gathered
together  all  the fragments of the amulet and reached  the  exit
door.  The exit door of each level is identifiable by a symbol of
life.
After having completed four levels in one type of setting,  Ulopa
arrives  in  a bonus area where he will be awarded  with  several
extra points.

Once  he has crossed this area,  he will arrive in a new area  in
the  heart  of  the land.  Here,  he  will  face  completely  new
conditions.  Each time the player completes a level,  he sees the
state of the amulet,  and once this is completely pieced together
again  he can then confront Maldur.  At this point of  time,  the
player must have gained a maximum of weapons, energy and bonuses,
as the evil magician has quite a few tricks up his sleeve.
If  Ulopa manages to destroy Maldur,  he thus frees Gaspary  from
the Reign of Evil once and for all, and may rule the kingdom with
all the wisdom and justice that his ancestors possessed.


MEETING OTHER CHARACTERS

A) THE MERCHANT
The  player  can  call a merchant to buy  items  which  he  needs
urgently.  In  order to do this,  he must possess a  flute.  Each
flute  can make the merchant appear twice.  Afterwards,  he  must
find another flute.  Thus you should not waste the resources of a
flute unnecessarily. Especially as the prices increase each time.
As  money of exchange,  you dispose of the points that  you  have
gained.  You  must  therefore  gain as many  points  as  possible
during the game.
The  merchant  proposes only items that the  player  has  already
found.  For example,  you can't buy an extra life unless you have
obtained one already.
Therefore it could be that your desired symbol will not appear in
the merchant's list.

B) ENEMIES
Along the road leading to Maldur's temple,  Ulopa will frequently
meet  Maldur's  monsters.  He  can either avoid  them  by  adroit
movements or destroy them with his weapons.
If an enemy is called,  objects that Ulopa can take will  appear.
These bonuses disappear fairly quickly,  so the player must hurry
and take them.
Consult the paragraph "BONUSES" to get more information.

THE GOULOU :
The  Goulou loathes humans and therefore prefers to live  in  the
desert.  It also hates contact with water.  Since intelligence is
not one of the dominant characteristics of this race,  the  Golou
depends mainly on force.
The leaders of these creatures are sometimes capable of launching
bubbles of spittle.  Most of the time, they overcome their victim
by surprise.

THE GREEN GOULOU :
It  is  smaller than ordinary Goulou,  but a  lot  more  cunning.
You'll find Green Goulous all over the country,  and thanks to to
their wings,  they can fly for short distances. Consequently they
are much more dangerous than the other Goulous.

THE ARAGOUS :
It's  a creature resembling a bird that you'll  find  everywhere.
Its acuteness of sight is excellent,  thus it was predestined  to
become a spy.  Often trained to this end,  many of them only have
passive reactions.  But there are also fighting Aragous, renowned
for their persistence.  Nobody knows much about them,  since  one
seldom  meets them.  According to rumours,  there may also  be  a
large  number  of skilled shooting Aragous but nothing  tmore  is
known about them.

THE GOBE-MOUCHES :
This  creature  lies  hidden away in a hole  in  the  ground.  It
captures its victims by suddenly emerging from its den. Little is
known about them,  since they are hardly ever  spotted.  However,
since Maldur has come to power they have apparently multiplied in
number.

THE OTHOUS :
Strictly  speaking,  the  Othous is not evil.  But  since  it  is
covered  with  spikes,  it  presents a  danger  to  those  unwary
travellers who touch it.

THE BOTHRIA :
The Bothria is a simple craeture similar to a dragon.  It  guards
the ancient parts of the temple,  vestiges of ancestral  times...
It is the most dangerous creature of all Gaspary.  It's best  not
to attract its attention.  If you disturb the Bothria while  it's
sleeping,  it will divide up into several sections and attack the
troublemaker.  A part of the Bothria leaves the player behind and
awaits him later for a merciless combat.  Be careful, in spite of
its nonchalant air, it is a fearsome opponent.

THE HIBOUSSA :
This  predator  lives  uniquely  in the  forests  of  Arbous  and
frequently attacks travellers by surprise. It leaves the treetops
to attack its prey.  Once it has launched itself it is impossible
to avoid combat.

THE BOA :
This  is  a gigantic serpent which only lives in the  forests  of
Arbus.  It  is not a boa constrictor,  but the bite  it  inflicts
pitilessly  on  its  victims  are  fatal  since  its  fangs   are
poisonous.

There  could well be other creatures in the area around  Maldur's
temple. But we can't tell you anything else as all this surpasses
our experience and we have no recent report on this subject.

C) BONUSES

STARS  :  They increase your score (pick them up to get  as  much
money as possible for the merchant).

SPRINGS : They enable Ulopa to jump higher.

EXTRA LIFE : Gain an extra life.

DEATH'S-HEAD : Ulopa loses a life if he touches it.

TIME BONUS : Your time is extended.

FLUTE : This flute is essential for calling the merchant.

There  are  even  more kinds of  bonuses.  We'll  leave  you  the
pleasure of discovering them.

PLAYING TWINWORLD

A) THE MENU
To select one of this menu's options,  move your joystick upwards
or  downwards to position the cursor opposite the chosen  option.
press the firing button on your joystick to confirm your choice.

PLAY  :  This option enables you to begin the game at  the  first
level and begin upon your mission.

HI SCORE : This option informs you about your performance up till
now (your number of points and level reached).

PREFERENCES : This option enables you to choose a game for one or
two players.  Moreover,  you can determine the musical volume and
sound effects.
In a two-player mode,  one player controls the character from the
higher world with a joystick connected to Port 2,  and the  other
controls  the  character  in  the lower  world  with  a  joystick
connected to Port 1.

B) CONTROL

THE JOYSTICK
Using a joystick to control Ulopa.  Connect it to Port 2 of  your
computer and begin playing...
- To move Ulopa to the right, shift the joystick to the right.
- If you shift the joystick to the left,  Ulopa will move to  the
left.
- To make Ulopa jump around, simply move the joystick upwards.
- If you move the joystick downwards, Ulopa will crouch down.
- When you press the firing button of your joystick,  Ulopa  will
throw a bubble.
- You  can destroy some  floors,  by moving  your  joystick  very
briefly downwards.
-  Watch  out  !  To enter  doorways,  simply  position  yourself
opposite   the  doorway  and  move  the  joystick  very   quickly
downwards.

HOW TO DIRECT ULOPA'S FIRING
Ulopa has three types of bubbles, whose range and force vary (the
two right-hand bubbles rebound against the walls).  In  addition,
there are several bonuses which influence the firing.  To restock
in  bubbles,  Ulopa must take the magical potions to be found  on
every level.  Depending on the particular potion consumed, one of
the three bubble reserves will be restocked.  If it is  extremely
urgent,  he will also be able to call the merchant, but this will
be expensive.  If he restocks from the merchant, all the reserves
of different bubbles will be restocked, depending on the force of
the bubbles, with either 15, 5 or 3 bubbles.
The  bubbles always move in the direction of  Ulopa's  gaze.  The
bubbles' trajectory depends on his movements. In other words, the
bubbles will fly in a different manner if Ulopa is  immobile,  if
he is running, jumping or crouching.
If Ulopa is crouching, the bubbles will fly close to ground level
and their trajectory will be straight.
If  Ulopa is standing up,  the trajectory is higher and  it  will
thus be more difficult for him to reach his nearest enemies.
If Ulopa jumps,  the trajectory will depend on the height of  the
leap.  The  nearer  he is to the summit,  the more  abruptly  the
trajectory will be.  To shoot downwards,  you must jump and  wait
till Ulopa descends before firing.

THE KEYBOARD
<SPACE> :  You have three types of bubbles at your  disposal.  To
select the one you want to fire, press the space bar.
<P> :  This key enables you pause during a game. By pressing this
key again you will continue with the game.
<DEL> : Enables you to leave a game : return to the menu.
<ESC> : Ulopa may be  imprisoned,  in which case the only way  to
continue the game is to press the key "ESC" (Ulopa will lose  one
life and you will continue the game in another area).
<H>  :  This key enables you to call the merchant.  (Consult  the
paragraph  "THE MERCHANT" to obtain additional information  about
this option).

---
Typed by RAISTLIN. Edited by PARASITE.